Introduction
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is one of the hottest areas of artificial intelligence (AI) thanks to applications like text generators that compose coherent essays, chatbots that fool people into thinking they’re sentient, and text-to-image programs that produce photorealistic images of anything you can describe. Recent years have brought a revolution in the ability of computers to understand human languages, programming languages, and even biological and chemical sequences, such as DNA and protein structures, that resemble language. The latest AI models are unlocking these areas to analyze the meanings of input text and generate meaningful, expressive output.

What is Natural Language Processing (NLP)
Natural language processing (NLP) is the discipline of building machines that can manipulate human language — or data that resembles human language — in the way that it is written, spoken, and organized. It evolved from computational linguistics, which uses computer science to understand the principles of language, but rather than developing theoretical frameworks, NLP is an engineering discipline that seeks to build technology to accomplish useful tasks. NLP can be divided into two overlapping subfields: natural language understanding (NLU), which focuses on semantic analysis or determining the intended meaning of text, and natural language generation (NLG), which focuses on text generation by a machine. NLP is separate from — but often used in conjunction with — speech recognition, which seeks to parse spoken language into words, turning sound into text and vice versa.

Why Does Natural Language Processing (NLP) Matter?
NLP is an integral part of everyday life and becoming more so as language technology is applied to diverse fields like retailing (for instance, in customer service chatbots) and medicine (interpreting or summarizing electronic health records). Conversational agents such as Amazon’s Alexa and Apple’s Siri utilize NLP to listen to user queries and find answers. The most sophisticated such agents — such as GPT-3, which was recently opened for commercial applications — can generate sophisticated prose on a wide variety of topics as well as power chatbots that are capable of holding coherent conversations. Google uses NLP to improve its search engine results, and social networks like Facebook use it to detect and filter hate speech. 

NLP is growing increasingly sophisticated, yet much work remains to be done. Current systems are prone to bias and incoherence, and occasionally behave erratically. Despite the challenges, machine learning engineers have many opportunities to apply NLP in ways that are ever more central to a functioning society.

What is Natural Language Processing (NLP) Used For?
NLP is used for a wide variety of language-related tasks, including answering questions, classifying text in a variety of ways, and conversing with users. 

Here are 11 tasks that can be solved by NLP:

Sentiment analysis is the process of classifying the emotional intent of text. Generally, the input to a sentiment classification model is a piece of text, and the output is the probability that the sentiment expressed is positive, negative, or neutral. Typically, this probability is based on either hand-generated features, word n-grams, TF-IDF features, or using deep learning models to capture sequential long- and short-term dependencies. Sentiment analysis is used to classify customer reviews on various online platforms as well as for niche applications like identifying signs of mental illness in online comments.